# BC-CLEWS-Model (BC Nexus Model)

Climate change is the most critical challenge of our times: temperatures are rising around the world; natural disasters occur more frequently, and natural resources are scarce. Global demands for water, food and energy are predicted to increase by about 50% by 2050 due to the impacts of climate change, urbanization, and population growth. To combat climate change, the decarbonization of the energy system needs to be accelerated. A growing number of governments, jurisdictions and municipalities are passing ambitious energy decarbonization policies. However, few studies have accounted for the impact of these energy transition policies on water resources as well as natural and agricultural lands, and how the changes in these sectors may impact the cost and effectiveness of these energy policies overtime. 

The project centres around development of a nexus of water, food, energy, and a climate model calibrated with BC specification. The model will enable exploration of the impacts of various BC decarbonization policies on security of these interdependent systems. The model was developed using the open source Climate, Land, Energy, Water Systems (CLEWS) modelling platform. The model runs a cost optimization assessment for each decarbonization policy to choose the least-cost pathway and most reliable energy technology mix to apply those policies successfully while still meeting demand and policy constraints. The model identifies the points at which each sector interacts with the others, such as the land requirement with energy, food with water infrastructure, or the water requirements with the agriculture and energy systems. The term “nexus”, used here to describe the model, refers to the interactions among interdependent components. “Nexus” structure indicates how the changes in the availability or functionality of one component can impose pressure on security of other interdependent components within the nexus.

The repository is broken into three main folders, as described below. The Wiki associated with this repository also provides detailed information on the the model structure and the modelling methodology.
