> **Note that this document serves as a guide for using, recreating, and tracking assumptions and input data in the BC Nexus Model. It provides definitions and values for the base model's input data. The CSV files input data formatted to be readable for the model solver is available in the [Resources](https://github.com/DeltaE/BC-CLEWS-Model/tree/main/Resources)> [Input-BCNexus-REF-LND Intensity Ave-N Arianpoo-Nov2022](https://github.com/DeltaE/BC-CLEWS-Model/tree/main/Resources/Input-BCNexus-REF-LND%20Intensity%20Ave-N%20Arianpoo-Nov2022) directory. The raw data collected from various sources to create the input files for modelling can be located in [Raw data](https://github.com/DeltaE/BC-CLEWS-Model/tree/main/Resources).

# 1. Tracking the change

In the current version of the model, water and climate data are only tracked. As a result, the model is limited to just monitoring water use in British Columbia and changes in demand for water in various see actors such as the power sector, public sector, and agriculture, depending on the crop type and yield. This allows for assessing the impacts of various policies on water resources, but the interaction is only one-way. Regarding the climate system, the model tracks the amount of CO2 emissions generated by each activity within and between the water, food, and energy systems.

## 1.1. Water  
The model can monitor the change in water use in each sector within the surface and underground water bodies in BC. However, due to the lack of adequate information, we assume all BC's water changes happen to the surface water body.

There are three water-related demands in the model: 
* water demand for agricultural activity based on the type of crops. The agriculture water demand is provided by the GEAZE file.
* water demand in the public sector (PUBWATBC1). The growth rate of 1.1% (based on the population growth rate) has been used to calculate the growth rate of public water demand in this version of the model as shown in the table [[Reference: Statistic Canada 2017](https://www150.statcan.gc.ca/t1/tbl1/en/cv.action?pid=3810027101)] below:

|______________| 2017 | 2018 | 2019 | 2020 | 2021 | 2022 | 2023 | 2024 | 2025 | 2026 | 2027 | 2028 | 2029 | 2030 | 2031 | 2032 | 2033 | 2034 | 2035 | 2036 | 2037 | 2038 | 2039 | 2040 | 2041 | 2042 | 2043 | 2044 | 2045 | 2046 | 2047 | 2048 | 2049 | 2050
| --| -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | --
PUB WAT<br/> (Million M<Sup>3</Sup>) | 0.82 | 0.83 | 0.84 | 0.85 | 0.86 | 0.86 | 0.87 | 0.88 | 0.89 | 0.90 | 0.91 | 0.92 | 0.93 | 0.94 | 0.95 | 0.96 | 0.98 | 0.99 | 1.00 | 1.01 | 1.02 | 1.03 | 1.04 | 1.05 | 1.06 | 1.08 | 1.09 | 1.10 | 1.11 | 1.12 | 1.14 | 1.15 | 1.16 | 1.17

* Water demand for the power system based on the power generation technology. A paper by Larsen ( paper called Water use in electricity generation for water-energy nexus analyses: The European case [[Reference](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0048969718339184)]) published in 2019 was used as input data in this version of the model. 

## 1.2. CO2 emission
The Emission Activity Ratio is used to create the interaction points between power generation activities and other fuel use in all sectors with the CO2 equivalent emission in the model.

* Reference for Gasoline data: Report published and revised by BC Ministry of Energy, Mines and
Petroleum Resources in 2018 called Carbon Intensity Records under the Renewable and Low Carbon Fuel Requirements Regulation [[Reference](https://www2.gov.bc.ca/assets/gov/farming-natural-resources-and-industry/electricity-alternative-energy/transportation/renewable-low-carbon-fuels/rlcf006_-_carbon_intensity_records.pdf)]

*  Reference for the rest of the data: Report published by the Center For Corporate Climate Leadership- U.S. Environmental Protection Agency in 2018 called Emission Factors for Greenhouse Gas Inventories [[Reference](https://www.epa.gov/sites/default/files/2018-03/documents/emission-factors_mar_2018_0.pdf)]

# 2. The role of BC Forests as CCS Technology

A critical component of the BC Nexus Model is its representation of the role that BC forests play in mitigating climate change by capturing and storing carbon dioxide. In the model, forests are considered a Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS) technology, and their inclusion is achieved by assigning a negative value of variable cost to forest lands. This enables the model to include reforestation and deforestation considerations within its cost optimization analysis. However, there are ongoing debates around the true climate mitigation value of BC forests, particularly regarding how much CO2 they absorb versus the amount they emit. 

To provide an estimate of the reasonable value of BC's forests for this version of the model, a back-of-the-envelope analysis was performed. According to the Government of BC (report called: British Columbia’s Forests and their Management [[Reference](https://www.for.gov.bc.ca/hfd/pubs/docs/mr/mr113/forests.htm)]), about 43% of BC's forest land comprises old-growth trees. The Sierra Club's 2019 report (report called: A Sierra Club BC report on the future of forests in British Columbia December 2019 [[Reference](https://sierraclub.bc.ca/wp-content/uploads/2019-Clearcut-Carbon-report.pdf)]) suggests that BC's old-growth forests store over 100,000 tonnes of carbon per square kilometre and absorb an additional 200 tonnes per square kilometre annually. In 2016, BC forests were estimated to have absorbed around 20-28 million tonnes of CO2 from the atmosphere.

Based on the provincial carbon tax value ($50-170 from 2020-2050), forests in BC can provide CCS services worth approximately $1,000-5,000 million annually in addition to the carbon already sequestered. However, the amount of carbon emissions from BC's forests is increasing, primarily due to human activities such as deforestation and climate change. Further research is needed to better represent the true value of CCS services provided by BC's forests, including both old-growth and new forests. The table below shows the value of BC's new growth forest CCS service in $million per unit of land (1000 km2) based on the provincial carbon tax rate between 2020 and 2050. 

Year | 2020 | 2021 | 2022 | 2023 | 2024 | 2025 | 2026 | 2027 | 2028 | 2029 | 2030-2050
:-- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | --
carbon tax rate ($) | 45 | 45 | 50 | 65 | 80 | 95 | 110 | 125 | 140 | 155 | 170
Value ($Million dollars) <br/>of BC’s annual forest CCS service <br/>per each 1000 km<Sup>2</Sup> of land | 2 | 2 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 7 | 8

# About Other Systems of this Model
- [Land](https://github.com/DeltaE/BC-CLEWS-Model/wiki/Land-System) 
- [Energy](https://github.com/DeltaE/BC-CLEWS-Model/wiki/Energy-System)

<!--EndFragment-->
</body>

</html>
